Add compiler messages for primary constructors (#35324)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/language-reference/compiler-messages/constructor-errors.md

- [**CS8878**](#records-and-copy-constructors) - *A copy constructor '{0}' must be public or protected because the record is not sealed.*
- [**CS8910**](#records-and-copy-constructors) - *The primary constructor conflicts with the synthesized copy constructor.*
- [**CS8958**](#constructors-in-struct-types) - *The parameterless struct constructor must be 'public'.*
- [**CS8982**](#constructors-in-struct-types) - *A constructor declared in a 'struct' with parameter list must have a 'this' initializer that calls the primary constructor or an explicitly declared constructor.*
- [**CS8983**](#constructors-in-struct-types) - *A 'struct' with field initializers must include an explicitly declared constructor.*
- [**CS9105**](#primary-constructor-syntax) - *Cannot use primary constructor parameter in this context.*
- [**CS9106**](#primary-constructor-syntax) - *Identifier is ambiguous between type and parameter in this context.*
class as well.*
- [**CS9108**](#primary-constructor-syntax) - *Cannot use parameter that has ref-like type inside an anonymous method, lambda expression, query expression, or local function.*

> - [**CS9109**](#primary-constructor-syntax) - *Cannot use ref, out, or in primary constructor parameter inside an instance member.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [**CS9109**](#primary-constructor-syntax) - *Cannot use `ref`, `out`, or `in` primary constructor parameter inside an instance member.*
```

- [**CS9112**](#primary-constructor-syntax) - *Anonymous methods, lambda expressions, query expressions, and local functions inside a struct cannot access primary constructor parameter also used inside an instance member.*
- [**CS9114**](#primary-constructor-syntax) - *A primary constructor parameter of a readonly type cannot be assigned to (except in init-only setter of the type or a variable initializer).*
- [**CS9115**](#primary-constructor-syntax) - *A primary constructor parameter of a readonly type cannot be returned by writable reference.*
- [**CS9116**](#primary-constructor-syntax) - *A primary constructor parameter of a readonly type cannot be used as a ref or out value (except in init-only setter of the type or a variable initializer).*
- [**CS9117**](#primary-constructor-syntax) - *Members of primary constructor parameter of a readonly type cannot be modified (except in init-only setter of the type or a variable initializer).*
- [**CS9118**](#primary-constructor-syntax) - *Members of primary constructor parameter of a readonly type cannot be returned by writable reference.*

> - [**CS9119**](#primary-constructor-syntax) - *Members of primary constructor parameter' of a readonly type cannot be used as a ref or out value (except in init-only setter of the type or a variable initializer).*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [**CS9119**](#primary-constructor-syntax) - *Members of primary constructor parameter of a readonly type cannot be used as a `ref` or `out` value (except in init-only setter of the type or a variable initializer).*
```

- [**CS9120**](#primary-constructor-syntax) - *Cannot return primary constructor parameter by reference.*
- [**CS9121**](#primary-constructor-syntax) - *Struct primary constructor parameter of type causes a cycle in the struct layout.*
- [**CS9122**](#primary-constructor-syntax) - *Unexpected parameter list.*

In addition, the following warnings are covered in this article:

- [**CS0824**](#constructor-declarations) - *Constructor 'name' is marked external.*
- [**CS9107**](#primary-constructor-syntax) - *Parameter is captured into the state of the enclosing type and its value is also passed to the base constructor. The value might be captured by the base class as well.*
- [**CS9113**](#primary-constructor-syntax) - *Parameter is unread.*

## Static constructors

- **CS0514** - *Static constructor cannot have an explicit 'this' or 'base' constructor call.*
- **CS0515** - *Access modifiers are not allowed on static constructors.*

You can write at most one static constructor for a type. The declaration of a static constructor must obey the following rules:

> - The static constructor has the `static` modifier, but no other modifiers such as `public`, `protected`, `private` or `internal`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The static constructor has the `static` modifier, but no other modifiers, such as `public`, `protected`, `private`, or `internal`.
```

- The static constructor must be a parameterless constructor.

> - The static constructor must not call `base()`, or `this()`. If the base class includes a static constructor, the runtime calls it automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The static constructor must not call `base()` or `this()`. If the base class includes a static constructor, the runtime calls it automatically.
```

## Constructor declarations

- **CS0526** - *Interfaces cannot contain constructors.*
- **CS0710** - *Static classes cannot have instance constructors.*
- **CS8054** - *Enums cannot contain explicit parameterless constructors.*
- **CS8358** - *Cannot use attribute constructor because it has 'in' parameters.*
- **CS8091** - *A constructor cannot be extern and have a constructor initializer.*

Constructors are allowed only in `class` and `struct` types, including `record class` and `record struct` types. You can't define them in `enum` or `interface` types. Furthermore, [attribute](../attributes/general.md) class types can't declare `in` parameters. Instead, pass parameters by value.

> You can declare `extern` constructors, however you can't use `base()`, or `this()` constructor calls to call another constructor from a constructor declared `extern`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can declare `extern` constructors, however you can't use `base()` or `this()` constructor calls to call another constructor from a constructor declared `extern`.
```

In addition, the following warnings can be generated for constructor declarations:

- **CS0824** - *Constructor is marked external.*

When a constructor is marked `extern`, the compiler can't guarantee the constructor exists. Therefore, the compiler generates this warning.

## Constructors in struct types

- **CS0568** - *Structs cannot contain explicit parameterless constructors.*
- **CS8958** - *The parameterless struct constructor must be 'public'.*
- **CS8982** - *A constructor declared in a 'struct' with parameter list must have a 'this' initializer that calls the primary constructor or an explicitly declared constructor.*
- **CS8983** - *A 'struct' with field initializers must include an explicitly declared constructor.*

> Recent features in C# remove earlier restrictions to `struct` types. **CS0568** is generated when you declare a parameterless constructor and you're using C# 9 or earlier. Once you're using C#10, you can declare an explicit parameterless constructor. That explicit parameterless constructor must be `public`. If your `struct` declares any [field initializers](../../programming-guide/classes-and-structs/fields.md), you must also declare an explicit constructor. This constructor can be a parameterless constructor with an empty body.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recent features in C# remove earlier restrictions to `struct` types. **CS0568** is generated when you declare a parameterless constructor and you're using C# 9 or earlier. Once you're using C# 10, you can declare an explicit parameterless constructor. That explicit parameterless constructor must be `public`. If your `struct` declares any [field initializers](../../programming-guide/classes-and-structs/fields.md), you must also declare an explicit constructor. This constructor can be a parameterless constructor with an empty body.
```

> When a `struct` type declares a primary constructor, including `record struct` types, all other constructors except a parameterless constructor must call the primary constructor, or another explicitly declared constructor using `this()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a `struct` type declares a primary constructor, including `record struct` types, all other constructors except a parameterless constructor must call the primary constructor or another explicitly declared constructor using `this()`.
```

## Constructor calls with `base` and `this`

- **CS0516** - *Constructor can not call itself.*
- **CS0517** - *Class has no base class and cannot call a base constructor.*
- **CS0522** - *Structs cannot call base class constructors.*
- **CS0768** - *Constructor cannot call itself through another constructor.*

You can use `base()` and `this()` to have one constructor call another in the same type or the base type. Calling constructors can minimize duplicated constructor logic. You must follow these rules when calling another constructor using `this()` or `base()`:

> - You can't call the same constructor, either directly, or indirectly through another constructor. For example, the following code is illegal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A constructor can't call itself either directly or indirectly through another constructor. For example, the following code is illegal:
```

- Copy constructors must be `public` or `protected` unless the type is [`sealed`](../keywords/sealed.md).
- Copy constructors must call the `base()` copy constructor unless the base class is <xref:System.Object?displayProperty=nameWithType>.
- Furthermore, the base type must have a copy constructor. `record` types always have a copy constructor.

## Primary constructor syntax

The compiler emits the following errors when a primary constructor violates one or more rules on primary constructors for classes and structs:

- **CS8862** - *A constructor declared in a type with parameter list must have 'this' constructor initializer.*
- **CS9105** - *Cannot use primary constructor parameter in this context.*
- **CS9106** - *Identifier is ambiguous between type and parameter in this context.*
- **CS9108** - *Cannot use parameter that has ref-like type inside an anonymous method, lambda expression, query expression, or local function.*

> - **CS9109** - *Cannot use ref, out, or in primary constructor parameter inside an instance member.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **CS9109** - *Cannot use `ref`, `out`, or `in` primary constructor parameter inside an instance member.*
```

- **CS9110** - *Cannot use primary constructor parameter that has ref-like type inside an instance member.*
- **CS9111** - *Anonymous methods, lambda expressions, query expressions, and local functions inside an instance member of a struct cannot access primary constructor parameter.*
- **CS9112** - *Anonymous methods, lambda expressions, query expressions, and local functions inside a struct cannot access primary constructor parameter also used inside an instance member.*
- **CS9114** - *A primary constructor parameter of a readonly type cannot be assigned to (except in init-only setter of the type or a variable initializer).*
- **CS9115** - *A primary constructor parameter of a readonly type cannot be returned by writable reference.*

> - **CS9116** - *A primary constructor parameter of a readonly type cannot be used as a ref or out value (except in init-only setter of the type or a variable initializer).*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **CS9116** - *A primary constructor parameter of a readonly type cannot be used as a `ref` or `out` value (except in init-only setter of the type or a variable initializer).*
```

- **CS9117** - *Members of primary constructor parameter of a readonly type cannot be modified (except in init-only setter of the type or a variable initializer).*
- **CS9118** - *Members of primary constructor parameter of a readonly type cannot be returned by writable reference.*

> - **CS9119** - *Members of primary constructor parameter' of a readonly type cannot be used as a ref or out value (except in init-only setter of the type or a variable initializer).*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **CS9119** - *Members of primary constructor parameter of a readonly type cannot be used as a `ref` or `out` value (except in init-only setter of the type or a variable initializer).*
```

- **CS9120** - *Cannot return primary constructor parameter by reference.*
- **CS9121** - *Struct primary constructor parameter of type causes a cycle in the struct layout.*
- **CS9122** - *Unexpected parameter list.*

Primary constructor parameters are in scope in the body of that type. The compiler can synthesize a field that stores the parameter for use in members or in field initializers. Because a primary constructor parameter may be copied to a field, the following restrictions apply:

- Primary constructors can be declared on `struct` and `class` types, but not on `interface` types.
- Primary constructor parameters can't be used in a `base()` constructor call except as part of the primary constructor.
- Primary constructor parameters of `ref struct` type can't be accessed in lambda expressions, query expressions, or local functions.
- If the type isn't a `ref struct`, `ref struct` parameters can't be accessed in instance members.

> - In a `ref struct` type, primary constructor parameters with the `in`, `ref` or `out` modifiers can't be used in any instance methods, or property accessors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In a `ref struct` type, primary constructor parameters with the `in`, `ref`, or `out` modifiers can't be used in any instance methods or property accessors.
```
